Write docs for new UUID type (#1512)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/values-and-types/uuid.adoc

= UUIDs
:description: Create and store uuid as properties on nodes and relationships.
:page-role: new-neo4j-2026.08 enterprise-edition

`UUID` values can be created and stored as properties on nodes and relationships.

[[uuid-type]]
== The UUID type

The `UUID` type is a 128-bit identifier, commonly used to uniquely identify objects within a distributed system. 
In Cypher, `UUID` values are stored as a dedicated type and can be represented as a hexadecimal string in the format `8-4-4-4-12` (e.g., `550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000`).

.An example `UUID` value
[source]
----
uuid("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")
----

In this example, the string `"550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000"` is a valid representation of a UUID.

[TIP]

> You can convert uuids into strings via the functions xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-tostring[`toString()`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can convert `UUID` values into `STRING` values with the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-tostring[`toString()`] function.
```

.Create a `UUID` value from a `STRING` value.
====

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN uuid("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000") AS uuid
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| uuid

| uuid("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")

1+d|Rows: 1
|===

====

.Create a `UUID` value using parameters
====

.Parameters (`STRING`)
[source, parameters]
----
{
  "uuidAsString": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000"
}
----

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN uuid($uuidAsString) AS uuid
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| uuid

| uuid("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")

1+d|Rows: 1
|===

====

[role=label--enterprise-edition]
[[store-uuid-properties]]
== Store UUID values as properties

To store a `UUID` value as a node or relationship property, use the `uuid()` function and a write clause.

[NOTE]
Storing `UUID` values requires the database to use link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-internals/store-formats/#store-format-overview[block format].
This is the default on Aura instances.
Community Edition cannot store `UUID` values as properties.

> .Create a node and a `UUID` property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create a node with a `UUID` property
```

====

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (n:Label {uuidProp: uuid("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")})
RETURN n.uuidProp AS uuidProp
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| uuidProp

| uuidProp("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")

1+d|Rows: 1
|===

====

> .Create a node and a `UUID` property using parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create a node with a `UUID` property using parameters
```

|===
| uuidProp

| uuid("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")

1+d|Rows: 1
|===

====

[[drivers-fallback]]
== UUIDs and client libraries (drivers)

Working with uuids via link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/create-applications/[Neo4j's client libraries] results in a different behavior depending on the library version.

- *Versions >= 6.0* -- UUIDs are fully supported and mapped into client types (see the _Data types_ page of each language manual).
- *Versions < 6.0* -- UUIDs can be created, attached, and manipulated in queries via Cypher functions, but cannot be returned nor created in the application. +
It is possible to create and store values as shown in the xref:store-uuid-properties[Store UUID values as properties] examples, but _returning_ a `UUID` results in a placeholder `MAP` value and a warning.
+
.Result of returning a `UUID` with a driver older than 6.0
[source]
----
+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| n.uuid                                                       |
+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| {originalType: "UUID("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")", reason: "UNKNOWN_TYPE"} |

> +----------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n.uuid                                                                                               |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| {originalType: "UUID("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")", reason: "UNKNOWN_TYPE"}               |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

= UUIDs
:description: Create and store uuid as properties on nodes and relationships.
:page-role: new-neo4j-2026.08 enterprise-edition

`UUID` values can be created and stored as properties on nodes and relationships.

[[uuid-type]]
== The UUID type

The `UUID` type is a 128-bit identifier, commonly used to uniquely identify objects within a distributed system. 
In Cypher, `UUID` values are stored as a dedicated type and can be represented as a hexadecimal string in the format `8-4-4-4-12` (e.g., `550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000`).

.An example `UUID` value
[source]
----
uuid("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")
----

In this example, the string `"550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000"` is a valid representation of a UUID.

[NOTE]

> Cypher's UUID type does not guarantee a specific UUID version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cypher's `UUID` type does not guarantee a specific UUID version.
```
